# data-representation-project Option A: 
# Ainara Ruiz Castillo Sutendt ID: G00387880


# 1.Project purpose:

My intention with this project is to create  a RESTful api and perform different operations  using my database in MySQL.  In the site I have created  we can see all records for the table "subscribers" in the "data_represenation" database. 
Once we access to the site, we are able to do different CRUD operations on this data, which are: Create, Update and Delete, the records in the visible table but also in the Database itself. 
My table is based on a system if subcribers having as attributes: id( autogenerated), Name, Paid ( how much they have paid for their membership), Membership ( is an id for the membership itself).


# 2. Procedure:

Following the lecturer's tutorials I have create a server using the PyMySQL module in Python to connect to my database in MySQL. 
I have tried to use the cfg file as recommended but I was having connection issues, so  I connected it directly ,the configuration file still in the repository for reference. 
Then I created a file to interact with this server "SubscriberDAO" in which we have created a class "subscriberDAO" that contains all attribute and methods to perform the CRUD operations using Python. 
This file is then called as  a module in our server file. 

For the website that includes the database's table, I have added an HTML file called "index.html" and placed this in a folder called "stactipages" added this folder to our server so can access to the static site we have created.

Furthermore I have also included a test file "inservaluesintable" to make sure the connection is working, I used it to make sure the DB was connecting, so I will leave it in the repository for reference. 


# 3.Contents of this repository:

1. File server3.py: This is the server. 
2. File SubscriberDAO.py: Use to interact with the server and database. 
3. File dbconfig.py: Added to add my credentials to acces to database although it does nto work for me on my environment/ device. 
4. Gitignore file
5. Folder static pages: Added the folder to add the file "index.hmtl" and mimic the structure that the app had on my system. 

# 4. Instructions to run code: 

This is a pretty simple code, just need to connect to server3.py and access to site, on it you will be able to interact with the database using the designated button I created. 

# 5. References: 

-Andrew Beatty Lecturers: add link to GMIT
